Python, a high-level interpreted programming language famous for its Zen-like code.
It's arguably the most popular language in the world because it's easy to learn, yet
practical for serious projects.
In fact, you're watching this YouTube video in a Python web application right now.
It was created by Guido Van Rossum and released in 1991, who named it after Monty Python's
flying circus, which is why you'll sometimes find spam and eggs instead of foo and bar
in code samples.
It's commonly used to build server-side applications, like web apps with the
Django framework, and is the language of choice for big data analysis and machine learning.
Many students choose Python to start learning to code because of its emphasis on readability
as outlined by the Zen of Python.
Beautiful is better than ugly, while explicit is better than implicit.
Python is very simple, but avoids the temptation to sprinkle in magic that causes ambiguity.
Its code is often organized into notebooks where individual cells can be executed, then
documented in the same place.
You're currently at version 3 of the language, and you can get started by creating a free
file that ends in .py or .ipymb to create an interactive notebook.
Create a variable by setting a name equal to a value.
It's strongly typed, which means values won't change in unexpected ways, but dynamic, so
type annotations are not required.
The syntax is highly efficient, allowing you to declare multiple variables on a single
line and define tuples, lists, and dictionaries with a literal syntax.
Semi-colons are not required, and if you use them, an experienced Pythonista will say that
your code is not Pythonic.
Instead of semi-colons, Python uses .py.
indentation to terminate or determine the scope of a line of code. Define a function with the
def keyword, then indent the next line, usually by four spaces, to define the function body.
We might then add a for loop to it and indent that by another four spaces. This eliminates the
need for curly braces and semicolons found in many other languages. Python is a multi-paradigm
language. We can apply functional programming patterns with things like anonymous functions
using lambda. It also uses objects as an abstraction for data, allowing you to implement
object-oriented patterns with things like class.
classes, and inheritance. It also has a huge ecosystem of third-party libraries, such as
deep learning frameworks like TensorFlow, and wrappers for many high-performance low-level
packages like Open Computer Vision, which are most often installed with the PIP package
manager. This has been the Python programming language in 100 seconds. Hit the like button
if you want to see more short videos like this. Thanks for watching, and I will see
you in the next one.